Brainstorm:
Superhot VR is one of my favorite VR games, and I liked the concept of how time moves when you move, so I could possibly have a shmup where that same mechanic applies with the same simple aesthetic. Another mechanic I like that I see in other games, but not very much in shmups is parrying. So the whole shmup could be based around parrying, either to reflect projectiles, or to gain ammo. Remember when Agar.IO blew up? Maybe a shmup where you grow in strength with each kill, but each projectile you shoot will also lower your strength and will decrease faster the stronger you are. A puzzle shmup would also be cool, and there could be different projectiles to activate different triggers, given limited ammo. How about a tower defense shmup where there's one tower you always control, but you can choose to build towers to help you fight or upgrade your own tower. 

Final Idea:
I think my favorite idea out of the ones I brainstormed is the idea of parrying to either gain ammo or reflect projectiles in the shmup, and I decided to go with parrying to gain ammo, maybe reflect projectiles as well as a power-up. Of Fullerton's formal elements, this mechanic would consider resources as an important element of the game since you have to parry to acquire ammo in order to defeat the opponents. There will be an element of boundaries as well, so you can't just run and only parry at the safest moments. This game will make the player play aggressively to reward them. Some player challenges I could include are faster projectiles, so they are harder to parry, but are required to gain ammo. If the reflect parry power-up is activated, players would actually have to get up close to the enemy to increase the chances of their projectile hitting them, but long shot reflects are also possible, the player will just need to predict where the enemy is heading and lead their shots.  The basic rule for the game is just to kill everything on screen by parrying and shooting. Players will also be bound in a space, have to avoid projectiles they can't parry, and will have a set amount of damage they can take before losing.

Midpoint:
From playtesting, I've learned that there needs to be a more forgiving parry field and more balanced iFrames to avoid having the game be too easy or too hard. After this point, I need to add more varied AI to the enemies, calculate score, factor in ammo, and change the aesthetics of the game.